---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Jay Coughlan is a graduate from *BCIT's* *Computer System's Technology* program and is a current *Vancouver Film School* alumnus with a diploma in *Video Game Design*. He's been driven to work in the tech industry since he was young, inspired by his favourite hobby, video games. He attended *Vancouver Film School* hoping to get a job designing game's like those he had played, and found an interest in programming and computer systems instead. This interest led him to attend *BCIT* where he learned to code in various languages, such as *Java, C, C++,* and *HTML/CSS*. He learned how object oriented languages functioned and how to design for them. In his second year at *BCIT* Jay entered the Digital Processing option where he learned about fourier transforms, how to read and write media files such as *Jpeg* and *Wav*, and how to manipulate the data to transform compression algorithms.

For the last 8 years, Jay had been working at *Checkfront* through many roles, including **Technical Support Specialist**, **Technical Analyst Lead**, **QA Automation Engineer**, and **Jr Software Developer**. At *Checkfront* he investigated and resolved technical issues with enthusiasm by using his deep knowledge of the product, wrote detailed testing steps and test plans with his experience of customer behaviour to guide his testing, and developed new features along with bug fixes with efficient, quality code. In doing so, Jay gained a lot of experience not only with software development, but with communicating across a wide array of different teams to explain changes, receive feedback, and discuss different needs across departments.

While Jay is looking for a new career opportunity, he is currently working on a new video game project, **Neon Roar**, with some like-minded individuals at **Fenris Publishing**. The game is a retro-style love letter to early sega genesis games, such as Golden Axe, Gradius, and Contra. The game was Kickstarted in 2022 and received over %125 of its funding goal and is looking for release in early 2027.

Beyond video games, Jay likes to read and write. His favourite books genres are fantasy, and he eagerly picks up new titles to burn through. Currently he's reading the *Noss Saga* series by *Joaquin Baldwin*. Jay also loves dragons, whether it's fighting them in *Dungeons & Dragons* or reading about them in books, or collecting dragon figures, those fantastical creatures inspire him and his creativity.